a calm mind is a blessing in our chaotic
world unfortunately a lot of people have
chosen to achieve this by using and
abusing pills and other substances which
can lead to addiction if you want to
achieve inner peace in a healthy and
non-medicated way
stoicism has some valuable methods to
offer in this video I will give you
seven stoic exercises for inner peace
[Music]
one negative visualization optimism is a
dark side when you reflect a belief or
hope that your life or a specific aspect
of it is going to be favorable and
positive you possibly set yourself up
for disappointment
that's why so many people start today
with a positive attitude and and today
defeated by the harsh and ugly realities
of life the stokes have a way to
counter-attack life's ugliness by a
technique called the negative
visualization the negative visualization
actually takes strength from pessimism
by mentally preparing you for in
desirable and uncomfortable situations
one of the most important stoic teachers
the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius said
the following and I quote begin each day
by telling yourself today I shall be
meeting with interference ingratitude
insolence disloyalty ill-will and
selfishness all of them due to the
offenders
ignorant of what is good or evil and
quote by visualizing the negativity
combined with an accepting attitude
Marcus Aurelius managed his expectations
and shielded his soul against adversity
to self-control practice the ability to
control oneself can be very useful to
stay away from addictive behavior acting
on your impulses when it's better not to
and to remain focused on the things that
truly matter to you
the Stoics make a clear distinction
between the things we can control and
the things we cannot control
Epictetus said and I quote things are
not control our opinion pursuit desire
aversion and in a world whatever are our
own actions things not on our control
our body property reputation command and
in one word whatever are not our own
actions end quote
the key is strengthening the things in
our control which takes practice there
are different ways to do this an example
is intermittent fasting in which you
don't eat for a specific amount of time
another example is chewing on your food
a certain amount of times before you
swallow it the last one seems easy but
when you're a glutton like me when it
comes to food it's actually very
difficult three don't give up practice
okay now after swallowing your food
after chewing it for ten to twenty times
why don't you start eating like a pig
don't use your hands just go for it
especially in a restaurant so everyone
can see what you're doing this is a way
to combat a trait and most of us seem to
have in excess caring too much about the
opinions of other people the thing is
the opinions of other people are not up
to you
so why worry about it because of our
social conditioning it takes practice to
break this habit a fear of social
ostracism is deeply ingrained within us
by deliberately making a fool of
ourselves we will be exposed to
situations in which people will judge us
negatively even if it's just by looks
and giggles slowly you'll experience
that this doesn't hurt as you've
imagined thus you don't give up attitude
has become a stronger for journaling
writing your thoughts down is a practice
done by the Stoics to find relief and
create a sense of order in the thoughts
and memories there for journaling has a
very cathartic effect on the mind
perhaps the most famous stoic who kept a
journal is Marcus Aurelius
in fact his journal can be read in book
form and is called meditations this work
was never meant to be published because
it was a personal diary of Marcus
epictetus and Seneca both stoic
philosophers practiced some form of
journaling as well Seneca said this
about it and I quote when the light has
been removed and my wife has fallen
silent aware of this habit that's now
mine I examine my entire day and go back
over what I've done and said hiding
nothing from myself passing nothing by
and quote five memento mori remember
thou art mortal the practice of memento
mori is reminding ourselves that we are
going to die thinking about the reality
of death puts your life in perspective
it tells you that your life is ticking
away second by second and that we should
not waste it on trivial things also it
teaches us to live life more fully
because tomorrow we might as well be
dead
thinking about death should not evoke
fear but
gratitude and appreciation for the life
that has been given to us Seneca says
this about death and a quote let us
prepare our minds as if we'd come to the
very end of life let us postpone nothing
let us balance life's books each day the
one who puts the finishing touches on
their life each day is never short of
time and quote six view from above
however some believe it's flat let us
stick with the widely accepted truth
that the earth is an orb this orb is
just a small planet in our solar system
and completely dwarfed by the bigger
planets in Jupiter and Saturn and don't
even talk about the Sun the Sun again is
a small star compared to many other
stars in our galaxy which is just one of
the many many galaxies in the Milky Way
when we realize how small we are it
becomes much easier to let go of the
many trivialities of our human existence
that annoying co-worker that
mother-in-law the guy who cut us off in
traffic are not so significant anymore
when we see them from a cosmic point of
view but even larger events like Wars
natural disasters and other tragedies
are minor events if we realize how vast
the universe is reminding ourselves of
our smallness is humbling puts our
existence in perspective and
occasionally makes us giggle at people
getting triggered and upset by stupid
meaningless things 7 amor fati when we
worry we are concerned with a certain
outcome we want the future to be such
and such and we dread the idea of things
going completely the other way worrying
about the future creates anxiety and the
Stoics have a very simple heck for this
called amor fati the latin phrase amor
fati means loving fate whatever happens
in your life as long as you embrace the
outcome you'll be fine
this doesn't mean that we should become
nihilistic and do nothing
I have no goals because we're fine
anyway goals and ambitions are fine as
long as you remain detached from the
outcome say that you're a musician you
practice as hard as you can and write
the best music as you possibly can but
remain detached from the outcome at the
same time your focus will shift from a
concept
and goal somewhere in the future to the
present moment which enlightens you from
worrying about undesirable outcomes
I practice amor fati while building this
YouTube channel as well I give it my
best shot and we'll see where it goes
whatever the future brings I embrace it
for those who are interested I've put
some interesting links in the
description also I have a Facebook page
thank you for watching
[Music]